Namespace registration for Canonical Text Services (CTS) URNs

Namespace Identifier: cts

Version: 1

Date: 2018-11-25 

Registrant:

   The Homer Multitext Project

   Contact persons: 
     Casey Dué (casey&chs.harvard.edu)
     Mary Ebbott (ebbott&chs.harvard.edu)
     Christopher Blackwell (christopher.blackwell&furman.edu)
     Neel Smith (nsmith&holycross.edu)
   
Purpose:

   CTS URNs provide permanent, canonical, scholarly references to 
   texts or passages of text associated with the unique cultural 
   phenomena that humanists study. CTS URNs are used by Canonical 
   Text Services (CTS), which provide a network service that can 
   equate XML documents with the work referred to by a CTS URN, 
   and can retrieve a well-formed XML fragment for a passage referred 
   to in a CTS URN. In CTS, each text is defined in terms of two 
   hierarchies: the first hierarchy, which associates a work with 
   a certain kind of group, is similar to the conceptual model of 
   the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR); 
   the second hierarchy, which refers to a passage within a work, 
   provides a method for citing a particular location or "citation 
   unit". Whereas the conceptual model of FRBR aims to represent 
   bibliographic entries as they are cataloged by librarians, CTS 
   URNs aim to model works as they are cited by scholars.

Syntax:

   The general structure of a CTS URN is as follows:

   urn:cts:SUBNAMESPACE:WORK:PASSAGE:SUBREFERENCE

   Where:

   o A required CTS subnamespace is a prefix that resolves to a unique 
     URI in the GetCapabilities reply of a recognized CTS service.
     Each unique CTS subnamespace is assigned to an authoritative
     registry for that CTS subnamespace by a top-level registry
     responsible for overall management of the CTS URN namespace.

   o A required work identifier is a set of dot-separated components
     representing at least one of a textgroup, work, and edition
     or a translation and examplar. Values for the work identifier
     must be registered with the registry identified by the CTS 
     namespace component.

   o An optional passage reference refers either to an individual 
     passage or to a range of passages within a work. A passage
     reference to an individual passage is formatted as a set of 
     dot-separated components representing one or more levels of 
     the citation hierarchy defined in a CTS TextInventory for that 
     work. A reference to a range is formatted as two passage 
     references separated by a hyphen.

   o An optional subreference identifies a span within a single 
     citation unit using indexed substrings. A subreference is set 
     off form the passage reference it qualifies by the at sign 
     character '@'. A subreference may contain two parts: a literal 
     string, and an index value. If an index value is included, it 
     is enclosed in square brackets '[' ']' and follows any substring. 
     The index value must evaluate to a positive integer.

   A detailed definition of CTS syntax can be found at:

   http://www.homermultitext.org/hmt-doc/cite/cts-urn-overview.html

Assignment:

   CTS URNs are assigned programmatically in accordance with the
   policies of an authoritative registry for a given CTS subnamespace.
   In turn, each CTS subnamespace is assigned by a top-level registry
   for the CTS namespace itself; this function is served by the 
   [Scaife Digital Library].

Security and Privacy:

   CTS URNs are used to identify cultural texts (and units thereof) 
   for the purpose of scholarly citation. Because such texts are public 
   resources, they do not contain private information or identifiers
   that can be associated with persons. Therefore it is unlikely that 
   the use of CTS URNs will result in the leakage of private or 
   personal information.

   Tampering with, or mis-assignment of, CTS URNs could result in
   incorrect citations within scholarly works that refer to the 
   underlying texts or passages of text. Although such phenomena 
   could cause confusion, they are unlikely to result in security
   vulnerabilities.

Interoperability:

   There are no known interoperability issues with CTS URNs as
   deployed.

Resolution:

   CTS URNs are defined for the purpose of citation, not resolution.
   Therefore, resolution is not envisioned and is out of scope for
   this namespace registration.

Documentation:

   More detailed information about CTS URNs and the CTS architecture
   can be found at:

   http://www.homermultitext.org/hmt-doc/cite/texts/ctsoverview.html

   http://www.homermultitext.org/hmt-doc/cite/cts-urn-overview.html

Additional Information: N/A 

Revision Information: N/A
 
